# TuLiPA-frames

This is an extension for the existing [TuLiPA](https://sourcesup.cru.fr/tulipa/) (Tuebingen Linguistic Parsing Architecture), a parser for Lexicalised Tree Adjoining Grammars. 
It is extended with semantic frames paired with the elementary trees. 

## Download and Execution
When you cloned the repository, you can start the parser with the example grammar by running `run/test.sh`.


To run the parser with your own grammar, download `TuLiPA-frames.jar` and run 
```
java -jar TuLiPA-frames.jar
```

To get more information on the execution modes, download `TuLiPA-frames.jar` and run `java -jar TuLiPA-frames.jar -h`, or see below.

## Test Grammar
The example grammar parses sentences like `John loves Mary` and `John sleeps`. 
The axiom is `s`.
Example Grammars are stored in the folder 'resources/test_grammar'.
The syntactic information and the frames are stored in one file, `verbs_frames.xml`. 
The type hierarchy with respect to which the frames are unified is stored in `more.mac`.
The lexical information processed by TuLiPA is 2-layered. 
The morphological lexicon maps inflected tokens to their lemma, storing morphological information in a feature structure. 
The lemmas are stored among with semantic information and the tree families to which the lemmas can be anchored.

To see an example of adjunction, run `run/test_adj.sh`. 
This grammar parses sentences like `John really loves Mary`.

## Arguments
To parse sentences, TuLiPA needs a set of resources, which should be given as parameters, either using the graphical interface or the command line. All resources can be generated using [XMG-2](https://github.com/spetitjean/XMG-2/) . The list of arguments is the following:

* Grammar (-g): the Tree Adjoining Grammar. Generated by XMG-2 (compiler `synsem`, or `synframe`).
* Frames (-f, optional): the semantic lexicon, only composed of frames, linked to the trees through the lemmas. Generated by XMG-2 (compiler `synframe`).
* Type hierarchy (-th, optional): the type hierarchy used to determine the resulting type when frames are unified. Generated by XMG-2 (compiler `synframe` + option `--more`).
* Lemmas (-l): the lexicon of lemmas. Generated by XMG-2 (compiler `lex`) or LexConverter.
* Morphological entries (-m): the lexicon of inflected forms. Generated by XMG-2 (compiler `mph`) or LexConverter.
* Axiom (-a): the category expected for the root of the derived tree.
* Sentence (-s): the sentence to parse.

## Cite
If you use TuLiPA-frames, you can use the following citation for attribution.

Arps, D. & Petitjean, S. (2018), A Parser for LTAG and Frame Semantics. In: N. Calzolari, K. Choukri, C. Cieri, T. Declerck, S. Goggi, K. Hasida, H. Isahara, B. Maegaard, J. Mariani, H. Mazo, A. Moreno, J. Odijk, S. Piperidis & T. Tokunaga, eds, ‘Proceedings of the Eleventh International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2018)’, European Language Resources Association (ELRA), Paris, France.

```
@InProceedings{ARPS18.567,
  author = {David Arps and Simon Petitjean},
  title = {A Parser for LTAG and Frame Semantics},
  booktitle = {Proceedings of the Eleventh International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2018)},
  year = {2018},
  month = {may},
  date = {7-12},
  location = {Miyazaki, Japan},
  editor = {Nicoletta Calzolari (Conference chair) and Khalid Choukri and Christopher Cieri and Thierry Declerck and Sara Goggi and Koiti Hasida and Hitoshi Isahara and Bente Maegaard and Joseph Mariani and Hélène Mazo and Asuncion Moreno and Jan Odijk and Stelios Piperidis and Takenobu Tokunaga},
  publisher = {European Language Resources Association (ELRA)},
  address = {Paris, France},
  isbn = {979-10-95546-00-9},
  language = {english}
  }
```
